p8105_hw6_yy3307.md, before:

p8105_hw6_yy3307
================
2022-11-29

## Problem 1

## Problem 2

First we need to import and clean the `homicide` dataset. Then I’m going
to create a `city_state` variable as combination of `city` and `state`,
with a binary variable indicating whether the homicide is solved.
`victim_age` will be `mutate` as numeric expression. Dallas, TX;
Phoenix, AZ; Kansas City, MO; Tulsa, AL are being omitted and we only
focus our analysis on those for whom `victim_race` is `white` or
`black`.

``` r
homicide_raw = 
  read.csv("https://raw.githubusercontent.com/washingtonpost/data-homicides/master/homicide-data.csv") %>% 
  janitor::clean_names() %>% 
  mutate(
    city_state = str_c(city, ", ", state),
    solve_binary = as.numeric(
      ifelse(disposition == "Closed by arrest", 1, 0)
    ),
    victim_age = as.numeric(victim_age)
  ) %>% 
  filter(
    city_state != "Dallas, TX", 
    city_state != "Phoenix, AZ", 
    city_state != "Kansas City, MO", 
    city_state != "Tulsa, AL"
  ) %>% 
  filter(victim_race %in% c("White", "Black"))
```

Then I’m going to use the `glm` function to fit a logistic regression
with resolved vs unresolved as the outcome and victim age, sex and race
as predictors for city of Baltimore, MD. After applying `broom::tidy` to
it, we need to calculate the estimate and confidence interval.

``` r
baltimore_logistic =
  homicide_raw %>% 
  filter(city_state == "Baltimore, MD") %>% 
  glm(solve_binary ~ victim_age + victim_sex + victim_race, data = ., family = binomial()) %>% 
  broom::tidy() %>% 
  mutate(
    OR = exp(estimate),
    CI_upper = exp(estimate + 1.96 * std.error),
    CI_lower = exp(estimate - 1.96 * std.error)
  ) %>% 
  select(term, OR, CI_lower, CI_upper) %>% 
  knitr::kable(digits = 3)

baltimore_logistic
```

| term             |    OR | CI_lower | CI_upper |
|:-----------------|------:|---------:|---------:|
| (Intercept)      | 1.363 |    0.975 |    1.907 |
| victim_age       | 0.993 |    0.987 |    1.000 |
| victim_sexMale   | 0.426 |    0.325 |    0.558 |
| victim_raceWhite | 2.320 |    1.648 |    3.268 |

Now we are going to run the same process for each cities and extract
corresponding odds ratio and CI, but this time we will do it with a tidy
pipeline using `nest`, `unnest`, and `map`.

``` r
cities_logistic =
  homicide_raw %>% 
  nest(data = -city_state) %>% 
  mutate(
    models = map(data, ~glm(solve_binary ~ victim_age + victim_sex + victim_race, data = .x, family = binomial())),
    results = map(models, broom::tidy)) %>% 
  select(city_state, results) %>% 
  unnest(results) %>% 
  filter(term == "victim_sexMale") %>% 
  mutate(
    OR = exp(estimate),
    CI_upper = exp(estimate + 1.96 * std.error),
    CI_lower = exp(estimate - 1.96 * std.error)
  ) %>% 
  select(city_state, term, OR, CI_lower, CI_upper)
```

The last step is to plot the estimated ORs and CIs for each city.
Confidence intervals are shown as `errorbar` in the plot.

``` r
city_plot = 
  cities_logistic %>% 
  mutate(city_state = fct_reorder(city_state, OR)) %>% 
  ggplot(aes(x = city_state, y = OR)) +
  geom_point() +
  geom_errorbar(aes(ymin = CI_lower, ymax = CI_upper)) +
  labs(
    title = "City Solving Homicides Comparing Male Victims to Female Victims",
    x = "City State",
    y = "Odds Ratio"
  ) +
  theme(
    axis.text.x = element_text(angle = 90, vjust = 0.7, hjust = 1),
    plot.title = element_text(hjust = 0.5)
  )

city_plot
```

![](p8105_hw6_yy3307_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-4-1.png)<!-- -->

## Problem 3

Commit message:

update --add brief comment of plot

p8105_hw6_yy3307.md, after:

p8105_hw6_yy3307
================
2022-11-29

## Problem 1

## Problem 2

First we need to import and clean the `homicide` dataset. Then I’m going
to create a `city_state` variable as combination of `city` and `state`,
with a binary variable indicating whether the homicide is solved.
`victim_age` will be `mutate` as numeric expression. Dallas, TX;
Phoenix, AZ; Kansas City, MO; Tulsa, AL are being omitted and we only
focus our analysis on those for whom `victim_race` is `white` or
`black`.

``` r
homicide_raw = 
  read.csv("https://raw.githubusercontent.com/washingtonpost/data-homicides/master/homicide-data.csv") %>% 
  janitor::clean_names() %>% 
  mutate(
    city_state = str_c(city, ", ", state),
    solve_binary = as.numeric(
      ifelse(disposition == "Closed by arrest", 1, 0)
    ),
    victim_age = as.numeric(victim_age)
  ) %>% 
  filter(
    city_state != "Dallas, TX", 
    city_state != "Phoenix, AZ", 
    city_state != "Kansas City, MO", 
    city_state != "Tulsa, AL"
  ) %>% 
  filter(victim_race %in% c("White", "Black"))
```

Then I’m going to use the `glm` function to fit a logistic regression
with resolved vs unresolved as the outcome and victim age, sex and race
as predictors for city of Baltimore, MD. After applying `broom::tidy` to
it, we need to calculate the estimate and confidence interval.

``` r
baltimore_logistic =
  homicide_raw %>% 
  filter(city_state == "Baltimore, MD") %>% 
  glm(solve_binary ~ victim_age + victim_sex + victim_race, data = ., family = binomial()) %>% 
  broom::tidy() %>% 
  mutate(
    OR = exp(estimate),
    CI_upper = exp(estimate + 1.96 * std.error),
    CI_lower = exp(estimate - 1.96 * std.error)
  ) %>% 
  select(term, OR, CI_lower, CI_upper) %>% 
  knitr::kable(digits = 3)

baltimore_logistic
```

| term             |    OR | CI_lower | CI_upper |
|:-----------------|------:|---------:|---------:|
| (Intercept)      | 1.363 |    0.975 |    1.907 |
| victim_age       | 0.993 |    0.987 |    1.000 |
| victim_sexMale   | 0.426 |    0.325 |    0.558 |
| victim_raceWhite | 2.320 |    1.648 |    3.268 |

Now we are going to run the same process for each cities and extract
corresponding odds ratio and CI, but this time we will do it with a tidy
pipeline using `nest`, `unnest`, and `map`.

``` r
cities_logistic =
  homicide_raw %>% 
  nest(data = -city_state) %>% 
  mutate(
    models = map(data, ~glm(solve_binary ~ victim_age + victim_sex + victim_race, data = .x, family = binomial())),
    results = map(models, broom::tidy)) %>% 
  select(city_state, results) %>% 
  unnest(results) %>% 
  filter(term == "victim_sexMale") %>% 
  mutate(
    OR = exp(estimate),
    CI_upper = exp(estimate + 1.96 * std.error),
    CI_lower = exp(estimate - 1.96 * std.error)
  ) %>% 
  select(city_state, term, OR, CI_lower, CI_upper)
```

The last step is to plot the estimated ORs and CIs for each city.
Confidence intervals are shown as `errorbar` in the plot.

``` r
city_plot = 
  cities_logistic %>% 
  mutate(city_state = fct_reorder(city_state, OR)) %>% 
  ggplot(aes(x = city_state, y = OR)) +
  geom_point() +
  geom_errorbar(aes(ymin = CI_lower, ymax = CI_upper)) +
  labs(
    title = "City OR Solving Homicides Comparing Male Victims to Female Victims",
    x = "City State",
    y = "Odds Ratio"
  ) +
  theme(
    axis.text.x = element_text(angle = 90, vjust = 0.7, hjust = 1),
    plot.title = element_text(hjust = 0.5)
  )

city_plot
```

![](p8105_hw6_yy3307_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-4-1.png)<!-- -->

From the plot we can analyze that the range for City OR Solving
Homicides Comparing Male Victims to Female Victims is from about 0.25 to
1.75. New York, NY has the lowest odds ratio and Albuquerque, NM has the
highest odds ratio. We can also tell that the confidence interval for
each city does not follows a specific increasing trend, some cities may
have low OR with long CI and some may have high OR with shortter CI.

## Problem 3
